Okay, in this video I'm going to show
you one of the most powerful but
underutilized features of Codeex CLI and
that is custom slash commands. So
obviously we can see on screen there are
slash commands that are built in with
Codex that you can use for various
things. We'll walk through a few of
those shortly, but the real power here
is the ability to install custom slash
commands for any task or workflow that
you like. So this allows you to save a
lot of time and build out some really
powerful workflows. And I'm going to
show you exactly how to do that in this
video. So, by the end of the video,
you'll understand exactly how they work
and you'll be able to create your own
first custom slash command from scratch.
But first, if you're not sure what slash
commands are or you're new to Codeex
CLI, let's just quickly touch on the
existing slash commands that are built
into Codeex. That will give you a good
idea on what they are and how they work.
You can see there's a list of slash
commands here that are available and a
description of what each does. We can
also see at the top here it says what
model we're using. So, GPT 5 codeex
high. And then we've got a command here,
model, which we can use to change the
model that we're using. So, first of
all, let's just uh hit forward slash and
that's going to bring up all of the
available slash commands. We can see
that it has all of those ones already
visible on the screen, plus a few
others. One of those obviously is model.
So, let's type in model and see how it
works. We can see if we hit enter on
that slash command, it's going to then
bring up a new session here that says
select model and effort. We're using
GPT5 codec, so we can hit enter. We can
then select the reasoning level. So
we've got low, medium, and high. We're
using high here, so we're going to hit
enter on that. And that's just an
example of one of the slash commands.
Another commonly used one is approvals.
So if you want to change the approval
method, you can do that using the
approvals command. You can see here
there are three levels of approval.
Level one is read only. Level two is
auto. So that allows codeex to read
files, make edits, and run commands. And
then full access allows Codex to make
changes to any files on your machine. So
not just the project it's working in.
Let's use number two for this video. So
we'll hit enter on the auto approval
mode. Let's also quickly touch on the
two levels of SL commands that you can
install. So you can either install a
command at the global level. So it's
accessible then to all projects that you
work on on your machine or you can
install a command at the project level.
If you do it that way, you'll only be
able to use that custom slash command
within the project it's installed in. By
default, I prefer to just install custom
SL commands at the global level. It's
likely that a lot of the commands that I
install are repeatable across multiple
projects. So, it's handy to have them
accessible at all times across all
projects. The only time where it might
make sense to use the project level is
if you're working in a business and
perhaps some of the data within that
custom/comand build is sensitive. If you
need to protect it perhaps from being a
global level accessible command, that's
when you might use the project level.
But as mentioned for this video, we're
just going to install all custom/comands
at the global level. The next thing we
need to do is talk about the process for
installing a custom slash command. So
there are a few ways you can do it, and
I'll show you shortly how the process
works once it is installed, so you can
see sort of the back end of how they
work. But my recommendation and I think
the easiest and best way to install
custom slash commands is to open up a
codeex chat directly with codeex and
tell it what you want it to install. And
I'll show you a few ways as well how you
can automate that process of of building
custom slash commands. But that's the
easiest way. If you just tell Codeex
what you want to build and and explain
that you want it built as a custom slash
command, Codex can then go ahead and do
it for you. There is a manual way to do
it, but chatting with Codeex and letting
it do the work for you is the fastest
and best method. Before we dive into the
anatomy of a custom slash command to
show you the back end of how it actually
works, I'll just quickly show you how
you can check to see what custom slash
commands are installed on your machine.
So, if you've just installed one, you
want to check that it has successfully
installed. Or you just want to see what
custom slash commands you have access
to. You can do that by hitting forward
slash and typing in prompts. That's
going to bring up the list of custom
slash commands that are installed on
your machine. As you can see here, we've
got one custom slash command installed,
and that's the code review slash
command. So, what I'll do now is I will
show you exactly how it works on the
back end. So we will say to codeex show
me the full
contents of codeexprompts code
review.mmd. So you can see here that
this path I've mapped out here
codeex/prompts
is the directory where all of your
custom/comands live. And the back end of
a custom/comand is a markdown file. So
that markdown file has instructions for
codeex on how to execute that command.
So whenever you run that command, it
will then locate code review.md or
whatever the name of your custom/comand
MD file is and it will then use the
context within that file to execute that
command. So we'll hit enter here and see
exactly what is in the code review.md
file for this custom/comand. So you can
see codeex has returned the full
contents of the code review.md file. We
can see this says perform a thorough
code review of the specified file or
directory. We've then got focus areas,
code quality and readability, potential
bugs or edge cases, and so on. We've
then got a review process, a recommended
output format for codecs to follow. So,
we want it to identify critical issues,
high priority, medium priority, and low
priority. Also mentioned what's working
well. And then we've assigned a target
file or directory for the command to be
run against. And we can see that is
specified using dollar one. This is what
we use to identify arguments. So if I
was to run, for example, code review
test.md,
that means I'm asking codeex to do a
code review of the test.md file. In this
case, test.md is the first argument
after the command. And that's what this
is referring to here by target. Dollar
one just means the first argument after
the command. So if you are building your
own custom commands and you want it to
work in this way where I can use the
command and then specify a file or
directory for it to work in, that's
where you would specify dollar one in
this case arguments for what to follow
for the command. And you can see the
fallback if no target is specified
review all code files in the current
directory. So that's an important thing
to consider if you do want to use code
review but you only want to test one or
two files. If you've got a large code
base, but you don't specify a file, it's
going to review everything. So, we can
see here that essentially a
custom/comand is asking codeex to call
on a specific file that has context and
instructions for what it should do when
that command is called on. In this case,
the code review command clearly
instructs Codeex to thoroughly review
the file or directory specified when the
command is run. And it's got clear
instructions and a process to follow on
how to successfully execute that task.
So, the purpose and the real power of
custom slash commands is your ability to
automate repetitive tasks or in-depth
prompts that you use regularly. You can
create those as custom slash commands
using this markdown file system. And
that's going to save you so much time
because rather than having to write out
these long detailed prompts every time
or perhaps copy paste prompts across
from wherever you might store regularly
used prompts, you can just create a
custom slash command in codec cli. Then
all you need to do is run the command
and it's going to source that uh
detailed prompt and context and run that
command for you. As an example, let's
now just test this command to show you
how it works. So for the purpose of this
video, I've created a dummy directory
with some files that have some issues
that codeex should be able to pick up on
when we run this command. So what I'm
going to do here using the code review
command is tell codeex to review the
code of messy code.js. If we hit enter
here, that will trigger the command. So
it will source that backend file, that
markdown file that we just walked
through. It will use that as the context
and instructions for this task. It will
then locate messy code.js JS as you can
see it's doing that right now and it
will prepare a detailed code review of
that file. So we can see here codeex has
now responded. It's followed the process
and the output as per the code review.md
file that lives on the back end. It's
identified critical issues and listed
those here. It's also identified high
priority issues, medium priority issues,
low priority and then it's also
mentioned what's working well. So it's
completed the task. It's followed the
exact context and instructions that
lives in that code review.mmd file. And
now what we can do is use the feedback
here to fix this file. So if you are
working on any projects where you want
to review the code just to make sure
that it's working well, especially for
vibecoded projects, it's important to
review the code thoroughly and regularly
that AI writes for you. This is a great
way to do that. So what we can do here
is now respond and say um fix all the
issues
you've identified. And now Codex will go
ahead and update the file by fixing
these issues that it's found. You can
see it's making a plan for what to do.
And now it's going to go ahead and fix
that file. So you can see Codex has now
finished that task. It's cleaned up the
code and fixed the issues that it
identified and it's now recommending
next steps as well. So we can see here
that using this command is really
helpful if we are working on a project
where we want to review files regularly
and make sure that the code is all
correct and then if there are issues we
want to quickly and effectively update
them. This command is actually part of a
set of commands that I use regularly for
the projects that I work on. And next I
want to show you a hack for how you can
install multiple commands at once and
how you can create multiple commands for
a specific workflow. So, we'll jump over
to my website and I will show you
exactly how this set of commands works
and how you can also quickly and easily
install the same set of commands
yourself. Okay, so we're on my website
here. You can access this page at
snapperai.io/codex-prompt-s.
I'll put the link in the description
below as well if you want to check it
out. Essentially, what I've got here is
some pre-built command packs for Codex
CLI. So you can instantly download this
pack which includes a copy paste prompt
that will then instruct Codeex to
install a set of commands. The one we're
going to talk about in this video is the
code analyzer pack. So you can see here
there's a set of commands here
specifically for code analysis. The
first one is what we've already looked
at which is the code review command. The
purpose of that comprehensive code
review with standards, line numbers, and
fixes. That's one of five commands in
the code analyzer pack. So as you can
see there are some other commands.
Security audit, refactor finder,
dependency check, and generate tests.
These are common custom slashcomands
that I use when I'm reviewing code
across my projects. For example,
security audits going to check to make
sure there's no vulnerabilities within
the code or the specific uh directory
that I've assigned as part of that
command. Refactor finder is going to
analyze my codebase and let me know if
there's uh potential opportunities for
refactoring. Dependency check is just
going to check for outdated packages. So
if I'm revisiting a project that I
haven't worked on for a while, I'll run
that to make sure that there are no uh
issues that I need to identify from a
dependency perspective. And then
finally, generate test. So if I just
want to do some testing on some files,
uh that's when I'll use that command.
And as mentioned, this code analyzer
pack gives you a copy paste prompt to
instantly install all five commands. So
I'm going to show you how that works
now. And this is an example of how you
can take your custom slash commands to
the next level. Copy paste prompts that
install slash commands are a really
quick and effective way to get access to
some of these commands so that you can
start working without having to go
through the process of prompting codecs
or trying to figure out what you need to
include in those backend files to power
the command. These copy paste prompts
just allow you to install all of them
automatically. And as mentioned, you can
jump across to this website, enter your
first name and your email and hit the
button, and you will get an email with a
download link to the copy paste prompt,
which I'll now show you. Okay, so we've
got the code analyzer pack installation
file open here. So again, if you do
decide to download that file, this is
what you'll get, which includes the copy
paste prompt to instantly install all
five commands on codec CLI. So you'll
see here that it just says what's
included in this pack. Five powerful
commands for code analysis. Works with
any coding language. Takes 30 seconds to
set up and it's production ready. It's
battle tested prompts with best
practices built in. So I've already
installed and used these and use them
regularly and they work. So we can see
here step one is to install all
commands. All you need to do is copy the
master installation prompt below and
paste it into codec cli. This will
create all five commands at once. So we
can see here where this uh line 24 we
can see markdown that's the start of the
custom prompt for codeex create the
following five custom slash commands in
my codeex prompts directory. So again we
talked earlier about global versus
project level commands. This path here
is the path for global commands. That's
where you want codeex to create and
install the custom slash commands if you
want them available at the global level.
And then we can see here we've got
specifications on what needs to be
built. So number one is the code
review.mmd file. So every custom/comand
that is built by codeex is stored in
this prompts directory in a markdown
file. So the name of the command is the
name of the markdown file. In this case
code-review.mmd
is for the forward slash uh code review
command. If we want to run that command,
that's going to then access that code
review markdown file for the
instructions it needs in order to run
that command. And you can see here we've
then got code review command, which is
the content that will live in this code
review.mmarkdown file and instruct
codeex what to do. Now, we've already
seen the code review command in action,
but let's scroll down and have a look at
the other four commands that are in this
pack. We've then got the second command
which in this case is the security audit
command and this instructs codeex to
create the security- audit.mmarkdown
file and add the following content to
it. Perform a comprehensive security
audit on the specified code. Scan for
SQL injection vulnerabilities and so on.
Output format for each issue found.
Provide severity level, location,
vulnerability type, risk explanation and
so on. Target file directory is then
dollar one. So again, we're specifying
the first argument after the command is
what we should review. We've then got
the third file refactor finder. So
again, this is an example you can look
at if you want to create your own custom
slash commands without using any of
these packs. You just want to have a
conversation with Codex and build your
own. This is what you would do. You
would ask it to create this file in the
global prompts folder with whatever
content you want. or you can even ask
codec to just create your own rules and
guidelines for whatever commands you
want to build. That's the process for
actually building it. It's simply a
markdown file in that global prompts
folder. That is what you need to do to
install a custom slash command. So I
won't run through all of these
uh now, but as you can see, it's a copy
paste job here. All we need to do is
copy the full uh prompt there and paste
it into codeex and it will install all
of the commands. So we'll do that
shortly. And you can see the prompt ends
here with confirm all five commands have
been created successfully. That's where
the copy pasting ends. So from there
above to the start of that prompt is
what you want to copy and paste into
codeex to build the commands. We can
then see it moves on to step two,
restart codeex. So anytime you install a
custom/comand, you'll need to restart
codeex before you can use it. What I'll
do is I'll copy this prompt across to
codeex. We'll paste it into our Codeex
CLI session and we'll watch Codex
install the prompt for us. So again, all
you need to do is find here where it
says markdown where the prompt starts.
Create the following five custom slash
commands. We want to copy all of this
text
uh down to the end of step one
where we can see confirm all five
commands have been created successfully.
So we'll copy that. We'll jump back to
Codeex and we'll send this prompt
through.
Okay, so we're back in Codeex now. I'm
going to paste the prompt that we just
copied across. Hit enter. And now Codex
will work on installing these custom
slash commands for us.
And it's now finished creating the
command. So you can see the response. It
took 55 seconds to create all of those
five custom slash commands. created the
new prompts under the prompts folder,
each matching the requested content
blocks. All files verified after
creation. No further steps needed unless
you want to sync these to other
machines. So now what we can do is test
the commands. So again, if we use
forward slash to look at the commands we
have access to, we can't see the new
ones yet because we need to first
restart codeex. So we'll cancel this
session. We'll start a new session. Now
I'll hit forward slash. And if we want
to bring up our custom commands, we want
to first type in prompts. That's going
to then bring up the list of custom
commands that we have installed. And you
can see that we now have code review,
dependency check, generate tests,
refactorinder, and security audit all
available to us as commands. So we've
already seen how the code review command
works. For this video, I'm going to show
you two more commands that are in this
pack and how they work. Next, let's test
the refactorinder command. So what we'll
do is we'll run refactor finder and
we'll ask it to analyze the entire code
base in this directory for potential
opportunities for refactoring and we'll
see what result we get. Okay, so we can
see it worked for 58 seconds. It's
provided a summary. Total opportunities
identified eight estimated technical
debt about 6.5 developer days. Quick
wins available three flattening
validation flow consolidating discount
tiers harmonizing HTTP client usage it's
got critical issues what we should do
first SQL injection and unsafe DB access
uh and a recommendation secrets embedded
and leaked via logs
uh weak password hashing
payment flow logs card numbers and fakes
outcomes so so it's identified these
critical issues in our codebase again
this isn't a real project. It's just one
I've set up for the purpose of this
video. It's good that it's been able to
identify these issues. We can see it's
also identified some high priority
issues and then some quick wins. And at
the end of the response, it says, "Let
me know if you want sample refactor
sketches or help sequencing the work."
So, a really good response here and an
interesting one to use on projects
you're working on. And as I said,
especially for vibe coded projects where
there's possibility that the code isn't
um as sound as it could be, it's a good
way to just double check and make sure
that there's no potential issues or
opportunities with the code base you're
working with. And we can see here the
summary is a really good summary here in
terms of letting us know how many
opportunities we have, what the
technical debt is, and the quick wins
that we can immediately work on. So
that's an example of the refactorinder
command. So finally, we'll just test the
security audit command. So again, this
is a really important one to run on all
your projects, especially vibecoded
projects, just to make sure that there
are no security issues. We want to make
sure there's no password leaks or API
key leaks. So this is a really important
command to use regularly to make sure
that there are no security issues.
Anytime you build a feature or create
new files, you should really be running
security audits to make sure that there
are no issues. So, we'll hit enter here
and Codeex will now do a security audit
of this file that we've specified. In
this case, orth broken.js. So, there are
some security issues in this file that
it should identify. We'll wait and see
what it does with its response. We can
see it's only taken 14 seconds for this
one.
and it has responded with quite a few
issues.
And we can scroll up to the top here and
see the response is severity critical
location.
Uh it's telling us what lines of code in
our file are the issues,
vulnerability type, SQL injection, risk
explanation, recommended fix, and it's
got the code recommended to fix the
issue. It then ends the response by
saying let me know if you want help
rewriting the module securely or adding
automated secret scanning tests. So what
we can do now as an example is pre
please rewrite the module
securely and it will now go ahead and
fix that file. So it's identified the
issues. We can now then follow up with
codeex and say okay now fix the issues
that you've identified and it will go
ahead and and execute those tasks as
well. So we can see codeex went ahead
and fixed all of the issues that it
identified. Now what we can do just to
confirm that the issues are now fixed is
we can run that command again
on that file. So we're doing a security
audit again on the updated version of
the file. So now we should get a better
response in terms of uh what issues it
finds. It should actually now say there
are no issues, but we'll see what
response we get. So it's now completed
the security audit of that same file now
that it has implemented the fixes and we
can see the response this time is no
exploitable security vulnerabilities
were identified after review. It's now
talking about the highlights of the
secure posture prevention tips are
already in place. Let me know if you'd
like additional defense in-depth
measures.
So we can clearly see here how this
workflow is really effective. We've got
a file that had serious critical
security issues. The security audit
identified those issues in the file. We
then asked Codeex to fix the issues that
it identified during that uh security
audit. And now we've run that again and
seen that the file is now robust and
it's fixed and there are no security
issues. So I haven't left codeex CLI for
this entire workflow. And that's the
power of custom slashcomands in in this
case making sure that your code is
secure. We've been able to review and
fix the code within this single session.
And I didn't need to write out any long-
winded prompt for the security audit
because that's already stored as an
instruction as a custom slash command.
So we can quite easily and quickly
perform these security audits and
similar commands on a wide range of
files. Uh that's the power of custom
slash commands. So that concludes this
video on an introduction to
custom/comands in Codex CLI. If you want
to download and install the code
analyzer pack, you can head over to
snapperai.io/codex-prompt-
packs. There you'll see this form where
you just need to put in your first name
and email and hit the button and you
should get an email in your inbox with a
link to download the markdown file that
contains the copy paste installation
prompt that we walked through. All you
need to do is copy paste that into your
Codex CLI session and that will
instantly install all five commands.
Alternatively, you can just start a
conversation with Codex CLI and install
your own prompts. So, you can just chat
with Kodak CLI, tell it what you want,
and it will help you install some custom
slash commands. So, I hope you found
that video valuable. Stay tuned and make
sure you subscribe if you want to see
more because I'm going to also do a
video on the PRD wizard pack and show
you how you can install that to automate
the process of generating PRDs. There's
a really powerful workflow that's built
off the original PRD templates on my
website that have been really popular.
So, that's going to be a really
interesting video. So, subscribe if you
don't want to miss that and thanks for
watching.